2023 26th International Conference on Computer and Information Technology (ICCIT)
<h1>Efficient Segmentation Techniques for the Automated Detection of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) in Microscopic Images</h1>
<hr>
<b>Nabajyoti Sharma<sup>1</sup>, Anupoma Angasree Toma<sup>2</sup>, *MD. Saidur Rahman Kahinoor<sup>3</sup></b><br>
<p><sup>1,2,3</sup>CSE, Leading University, Sylhet</p>
<hr>
<p>Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL), a significant hematologic malignancy impacting both children and adults, demands accurate and efficient diagnostic approaches. Current practices involve manual White Blood Cell (WBC) counting from microscopic images, which is not only cumbersome but also susceptible to human errors. Addressing this diagnostic bottleneck, the authors aim to develop a computational model for the automated detection of ALL from blood smear images. As such, with a focus on refining image pre-processing strategies through image grayscaling, filtering or enhancement and noise removal techniques, this study underscores the efficacy of different segmentation methods in discerning leukemia cells.</p> <br>
<p>Using the ALL-IDB dataset[1], a repository of leukemia microscopic images, we evaluated three segmentation models- Watershed Based Method, Otsu’s Binarization Method, and the Canny Edge Detector. Our comprehensive analysis, founded on key performance metrics, reveals Watershed as the most promising with an accuracy rate of 91.09%, while the others demonstrated 90.95% and 85.11% respectively. Rooted in state-of-the-art segmentation techniques, this research has the potential to significantly streamline the diagnostic landscape for ALL, making it more accurate, efficient, and less error-prone.</p>
